# NBA-Shooting-Efficiency-Dashboard
This is a project completed for my Conveying Visual Data Insights Class at the University of Notre Dame. For the project, my partners and I made a dashboard to compare the shooting efficiency for the starting 5 players on the Golden State Warriors and the Cleveland Cavaliers for the 2016-2017 season, when the two met in the NBA finals. There are various sheets in the twbx file that demonstrate the different components of the dashboard, as well as a written analysis of the dashboard. The project was completed with my classmates Connor Casey and Quinn Brennan.

## Data
The dataset used to complete this project was given to us by our professor. [Click here to download the dataset](https://drive.google.com/uc?export=download&id=10lCSStCBBb-jttqsCGTqr-C38OOQnTlQ). The data contained information about every shot taken in the NBA in the 2016-2017 season. For each shot, the dataset provided information like who took the shot, what team the player was on, where the shot was taken from, whether they made it or not, etc. As the data was so large, we had to perform data cleansing in order to narrow the dataset down to only the required data points for our project so that we weren’t dealing with lots of unnecessary data. For example, we only needed data for the 5 starters for the Cavaliers and the Warriors, and because we wanted to compare these teams’ and players’ shooting percentages when they played against each other, we only needed data points from when the teams played against each other. 

## Dashboard Explanation
The dashboard can be found in the file `NBA Shooting Efficiency Dashboard.twbx`. The dashboard aims to compare the shooting efficiency of the Warriors and the Cavaliers when the two teams played agaisnt each other. There are two main parts to the dashboard, the first is the dynamic map of the basketball court that displays shot maps for all of the shots taken in games where these two teams played against each other. The user can use various filters to control the dashboard. For example, they can select a team, player(s), the period (quarter), the shot location, etc. This shot map shows where every shot was taken from and by adjusting the filters, the user can see a certain team’s or player’s shooting percentage from different areas on the court. The second element of the dashboard is a static bar chart that compares the shooting percentage by quarter for each team when they played against each other. For visual effect, the team logo and player picture changes based on the filters selected.

